INSTALL.md, before:

# Development
This document contains information for compiling and installing rbxmk.

rbxmk is written in [Go](https://go.dev/). For development, it is recommend to
be familiar with the [`go` command](https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go).

## Basic installation
Instead of using prebuilt releases, the program can be installed manually.

1. [Install Go](https://golang.org/doc/install)
2. [Install Git](http://git-scm.com/downloads)
3. Using a shell with Git (such as Git Bash), run the following command:

```bash
go install github.com/anaminus/rbxmk/rbxmk@latest
```

If you installed Go correctly, this will install the latest version of the
program to `$GOPATH/bin`, which will allow you run it directly from a shell.

A specific version of the program may be installed by replacing `latest` with a
version number (e.g. `v0.8.0`).

## Building the repository
To compile and install the bleeding-edge version, the best way is to clone the
repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/anaminus/rbxmk
cd rbxmk/rbxmk
go install
```

## Build tags
Several build tags are available to configure how the program is compiled. Tags
can be configured with the `-tags` flag:

```bash
go install -tags "tag1 tag2 etc"
```

The following tags are available:

### release
To aid with debugging, the program version is built as "imperative" by default,
indicating the default branch.

```bash
go install
rbxmk version
# imperative
```

To build a release version, the `release` tag must be included:

```bash
go install -tags "release"
rbxmk version
# 0.5.1
```

### no_desc_test
Testing of the `--desc-latest` flag involves downloading an external file, which
can slow down testing. This can be disabled by including the `no_desc_test` tag.

```bash
go test -tags "no_desc_test"
```

### sslkeylog
Including the `sslkeylog` tag will compile the program with SSL key logging
support. This is useful for interfacing with external programs like
[Wireshark](https://www.wireshark.org/) to debug HTTPS connections.

Additionally, the linker must be configured to set the
`main.sslKeyLogFileEnvVar` variable to the name of an environment variable. This
environment variable will be used to get the location of a key logging file when
it is available.

For example, Wireshark reads from the file pointed to by the `SSLKEYLOGFILE`
environment variable. To interface with Wireshark, the program can be compiled
as follows:

```bash
go install -tags "sslkeylog" -ldflags="-X main.sslKeyLogFileEnvVar=SSLKEYLOGFILE"
```

Then, when `SSLKEYLOGFILE` is set to, say, `/tmp/sslkeys.log`, the program will
write keys to this file as it makes network requests. Meanwhile, Wireshark will
read keys from this file, and use them to decrypt the network traffic made by
the program.

Because key logging is a security risk, it is forced disabled when the `release`
build tag is included.

### Language tags
Support for compilation with alternate languages is available.

By default, the "en-us" language is compiled. To compile with a different
language, the `lang_no_default` tag must be included disable the default
language, then a `lang_*` tag is included to set the desired language.

```bash
go install -tags "lang_no_default lang_en_us"
```

Language build tags are formatted by converting non-letter characters to
underscores, and prefixing with "lang_". For example, `en-us` becomes
`lang_en_us`.

The following language tags are available:

- `lang_en_us`

## Version configuration
Extra version information can be included by passing the `-X` flag to the
linker:

```bash
go install -ldflags="-X $VARIABLE=$VALUE"
```

- The `main.Prerelease` variable appends a prerelease version.
- The `main.Build` variable appends build metadata.

The following example sets the prelease as "rc.1", and sets the build
information to include the current date and commit hash.

```bash
go install -ldflags="-X main.Prerelease=rc.1 -X main.Build=$(echo $(git log -1 --format=%cI | date --utc +%Y%m%d)-$(git rev-parse --short HEAD))"
rbxmk version
# imperative-rc.1+20210312-2070bf8
```

## Cross-compilation
The program can be cross-compiled by setting the `GOOS` and `GOARCH` environment
variables to the target system before compiling. For example, in Bash:

```bash
GOOS=windows GOARCH=amd64 go install -tags "lang_no_default lang_en_us"
```

The page on [Go environment variables][goenvvar] contains more information,
including a list of valid combinations of `GOOS` and `GOARCH`.

[goenvvar]: https://go.dev/doc/install/source#environment

Commit message:

Implement interactive command mode.
If the executable is run from Windows Explorer, then the program will
enter a mode that allows commands to be used interactively.

NOTE: Cobra commands are currently not designed to be run more than
once. Because of this, the behavior is locked behind
the "interactive_commands" build tag. Progress on a solution can be
tracked here: https://github.com/spf13/cobra/issues/1419

INSTALL.md, after:

# Development
This document contains information for compiling and installing rbxmk.

rbxmk is written in [Go](https://go.dev/). For development, it is recommend to
be familiar with the [`go` command](https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/go).

## Basic installation
Instead of using prebuilt releases, the program can be installed manually.

1. [Install Go](https://golang.org/doc/install)
2. [Install Git](http://git-scm.com/downloads)
3. Using a shell with Git (such as Git Bash), run the following command:

```bash
go install github.com/anaminus/rbxmk/rbxmk@latest
```

If you installed Go correctly, this will install the latest version of the
program to `$GOPATH/bin`, which will allow you run it directly from a shell.

A specific version of the program may be installed by replacing `latest` with a
version number (e.g. `v0.8.0`).

## Building the repository
To compile and install the bleeding-edge version, the best way is to clone the
repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/anaminus/rbxmk
cd rbxmk/rbxmk
go install
```

## Build tags
Several build tags are available to configure how the program is compiled. Tags
can be configured with the `-tags` flag:

```bash
go install -tags "tag1 tag2 etc"
```

The following tags are available:

### release
To aid with debugging, the program version is built as "imperative" by default,
indicating the default branch.

```bash
go install
rbxmk version
# imperative
```

To build a release version, the `release` tag must be included:

```bash
go install -tags "release"
rbxmk version
# 0.5.1
```

### interactive_commands
Including the `interactive_commands` tag will enable **interactive command
mode**. If the executable is run from Windows Explorer, the program runs in a
mode that allows commands to be used interactively. If not included, a message
is displayed instead.

This feature is locked behind a tag because Cobra commands are currently not
designed to be run more than once. Progress on this issue can be tracked at
[github.com/spf13/cobra#1419][1419].

[1419]: https://github.com/spf13/cobra/issues/1419

### no_desc_test
Testing of the `--desc-latest` flag involves downloading an external file, which
can slow down testing. This can be disabled by including the `no_desc_test` tag.

```bash
go test -tags "no_desc_test"
```

### sslkeylog
Including the `sslkeylog` tag will compile the program with SSL key logging
support. This is useful for interfacing with external programs like
[Wireshark](https://www.wireshark.org/) to debug HTTPS connections.

Additionally, the linker must be configured to set the
`main.sslKeyLogFileEnvVar` variable to the name of an environment variable. This
environment variable will be used to get the location of a key logging file when
it is available.

For example, Wireshark reads from the file pointed to by the `SSLKEYLOGFILE`
environment variable. To interface with Wireshark, the program can be compiled
as follows:

```bash
go install -tags "sslkeylog" -ldflags="-X main.sslKeyLogFileEnvVar=SSLKEYLOGFILE"
```

Then, when `SSLKEYLOGFILE` is set to, say, `/tmp/sslkeys.log`, the program will
write keys to this file as it makes network requests. Meanwhile, Wireshark will
read keys from this file, and use them to decrypt the network traffic made by
the program.

Because key logging is a security risk, it is forced disabled when the `release`
build tag is included.

### Language tags
Support for compilation with alternate languages is available.

By default, the "en-us" language is compiled. To compile with a different
language, the `lang_no_default` tag must be included disable the default
language, then a `lang_*` tag is included to set the desired language.

```bash
go install -tags "lang_no_default lang_en_us"
```

Language build tags are formatted by converting non-letter characters to
underscores, and prefixing with "lang_". For example, `en-us` becomes
`lang_en_us`.

The following language tags are available:

- `lang_en_us`

## Version configuration
Extra version information can be included by passing the `-X` flag to the
linker:

```bash
go install -ldflags="-X $VARIABLE=$VALUE"
```

- The `main.Prerelease` variable appends a prerelease version.
- The `main.Build` variable appends build metadata.

The following example sets the prelease as "rc.1", and sets the build
information to include the current date and commit hash.

```bash
go install -ldflags="-X main.Prerelease=rc.1 -X main.Build=$(echo $(git log -1 --format=%cI | date --utc +%Y%m%d)-$(git rev-parse --short HEAD))"
rbxmk version
# imperative-rc.1+20210312-2070bf8
```

## Cross-compilation
The program can be cross-compiled by setting the `GOOS` and `GOARCH` environment
variables to the target system before compiling. For example, in Bash:

```bash
GOOS=windows GOARCH=amd64 go install -tags "lang_no_default lang_en_us"
```

The page on [Go environment variables][goenvvar] contains more information,
including a list of valid combinations of `GOOS` and `GOARCH`.

[goenvvar]: https://go.dev/doc/install/source#environment
